# Cardano Atlantic Council Charter

**Effective: 2024-06-12**

## 1. Introduction

The primary reason for establishing this council is to evaluate governance
actions and determine whether they comply with the Constitution as approved by
the voters. This evaluation ensures that the governance actions align with the
principles and guidelines set forth by the Cardano community.

Our diverse backgrounds and experiences allow us to represent a healthy
cross-section of cultural and life experiences. This diversity brings a unique
perspective when determining the constitutionality of governance actions,
ensuring that decisions are made with a comprehensive understanding of the
community's needs and values.

Furthermore, it is essential for a seat on the Constitutional Committee to be
served by a consortium or council rather than a single individual. This
structure enhances operational resiliency and minimizes single points of failure
within the system. By having a collective body, we can avoid potential gridlock
that could disrupt the larger Cardano ecosystem, ensuring continuous and
effective governance.

The Cardano Constitutional Committee is a crucial body within the Cardano
ecosystem, responsible for overseeing the adherence to the constitutional
framework. The Cardano Atlantic Council serves as one voting member of this
committee, providing a voice for the broader community in governance matters.

## 2. Objectives

### Primary Goals of the Council

1. **Ensure Proper Functioning of the Cardano Blockchain through the
   Voltaire-Era Bootstrap Phase**<br />
   The council aims to ensure that the Cardano blockchain continues to operate
   efficiently and effectively during the critical Voltaire-era bootstrap phase.
   This involves monitoring governance actions and decisions to guarantee they
   align with the constitutional framework and support the overall health and
   stability of the blockchain.
2. **Achieve a 100% Voting Record**<br />
   Our goal is to maintain a 100% voting record, meaning that all council
   members will participate in every vote. This high level of engagement ensures
   that the council’s decisions are representative of the collective insights
   and perspectives of its members.
3. **Grow Membership to 9 Voters for Enhanced Geographic Representation**<br />
   The council aims to expand its membership to nine voters within the first
   year. By increasing the number of members, we can enhance geographic
   representation, bringing diverse viewpoints and local insights into the
   decision-making process. This diversity helps ensure that governance
   decisions are more inclusive and reflective of the global Cardano community.

### Expected Outcomes

1. **High Participation and Engagement**<br />
   Success will be measured by the council’s ability to maintain a high level of
   participation and engagement from its members. A 100% voting record will be a
   key indicator of this success, demonstrating the commitment and involvement
   of all members in governance processes.
2. **Increased Membership and Representation**<br />
   The council will strive to bring on three new voting members within the first
   year. This growth will not only enhance geographic representation but also
   contribute to a broader range of perspectives, making the council's decisions
   more robust and well-rounded.
3. **Effective Governance and Compliance**<br />
   The council’s primary objective is to ensure that all governance actions
   comply with the Cardano Constitution. This will involve thorough evaluations
   and assessments of proposed actions, ensuring they align with the
   constitutional principles and the community’s values. Success in this area
   will be reflected in the smooth operation of the blockchain and the trust of
   the community in the governance process.
4. **Transparent and Inclusive Decision-Making**<br />
   By adhering to transparent and inclusive decision-making processes, the
   council will foster greater trust and confidence among the Cardano community.
   This includes making public the rationale for all decisions, holding regular
   public educational and AMA events, and ensuring clear communication of
   meeting dates, times, and outcomes.
5. **Educational Outreach and Community Engagement**<br />
   The council aims to actively engage with the Cardano community through public
   educational events and AMA sessions. These efforts will help educate the
   community about governance processes, the importance of the constitution, and
   how members can participate and contribute to these discussions.

By achieving these objectives, the Council will play a vital role in ensuring
the integrity, stability, and inclusiveness of Cardano’s governance during the
Voltaire era and beyond.

## 3. Membership

### Criteria for Membership

To be eligible for membership, individuals must be 18 years of age or older and
subject to a background check. Additionally, prospective members must not appear
on any anti-terrorism or sanctions lists, ensuring that all members meet the
necessary legal and ethical standards required for participation in the council.

### Selection Process

The selection of new members requires the full consent of all existing council
members, ensuring that each new member is welcomed with unanimous approval. This
approach promotes unity and ensures that all members are aligned in their
decision to expand the council.

New members must be nominated for inclusion by an existing member of the group.
This nomination process ensures that prospective members are vetted and endorsed
by current members who can vouch for their suitability and commitment to the
council’s objectives.

To maintain a manageable and effective group size, the council may not grow by
more than the number of current members minus one in any given year. For
instance, starting with 6 members in the first year, the council can add up to 5
new members, reaching a total of 11 members by the end of the first year. In the
second year, this growth pattern continues, allowing for the addition of up to
10 new members, which would bring the total membership to 21. This structured
growth strategy helps prevent any single external influence from gaining a
controlling interest in the council and ensures a balanced and representative
expansion.

### Roles and Responsibilities of Members

Council members are expected to participate actively in all council meetings and
discussions, ensuring their presence and engagement in the decision-making
processes. They are responsible for conducting thorough evaluations of all
proposed governance actions, assessing their alignment with the Cardano
Constitution and the broader community’s values. Additionally, members must
adhere to the principles of transparency, integrity, and accountability in all
their actions, fostering trust and confidence within the council and the larger
Cardano community.

## 4. Governance Structure

### Leadership Positions and Their Roles

The council operates on the principle that there is no concept of formal
leadership within the group; all members are considered a consortium of equals.
When individuals are needed to attend general Constitutional Committee meetings,
they are selected on a voluntary basis from the bloc of Council voters. To
ensure that the delegate faithfully and accurately represents the Council, the
group should send two representatives to larger or formal gatherings, such as
meetings of the full Constitutional Committee. Roles such as secretary or
recorder, public relations, treasurer, and other necessary positions are defined
as needed by the Council and are handled voluntarily by Council members. This
approach ensures that responsibilities are shared equitably and that all members
have the opportunity to contribute to the Council's functions.

### Decision-Making Process

The council's decision-making process is structured to ensure efficiency and
inclusivity. The council operates with a minimum of 5 voting keys, and if the
number of members falls below this threshold, the council should be disbanded.
The maximum number of voting keys is capped at 20 to maintain a manageable and
effective size. Decisions are made based on a consensus threshold of 60% (
rounding up), ensuring that a significant majority supports any action taken. If
a 60% or higher consensus cannot be reached the Council will vote to abstain on
the Governance Action in question.

For a meeting to achieve quorum, it must be attended by at least 60% of the
voting bloc. This requirement ensures that decisions are made with adequate
representation from the council members. Additionally, voters are allowed to
cast their votes asynchronously via an orchestrator, enabling participation even
if they cannot attend the meeting in person. This flexibility ensures that all
members have the opportunity to contribute to the decision-making process,
regardless of their availability.

### Conflict Resolution and Replacement Process

If a member must be ejected or replaced due to resignation, the remaining
members of the Council (excluding the member being ejected or resigning) must
agree to bring in a new member. This decision ensures that the replacement
process is conducted fairly and with the consensus of the existing members. New
voters may be selected from currently non-voting Council members, providing an
opportunity for active members to step into voting roles. Alternatively, a new
member may be invited to join the Council following the standard Membership
Selection Process, ensuring that all new additions meet the established criteria
and are approved unanimously by the current members.

## 5. Meetings

Meetings of the council should be scheduled on a weekly basis to ensure regular
and consistent communication and decision-making. However, if there is not
enough Governance Action activity in a given week, the following meeting(s) may
be canceled or postponed on a week-by-week basis. Additional meetings may be
scheduled as needed during periods when a large number of proposals must be
considered or when complex proposals require additional consultation for
decision making.This flexibility helps manage members' time effectively and
ensures that meetings are held only when necessary.

Agendas detailing relevant Governance Actions and Council action items should be
prepared in advance and shared with all members prior to each meeting. This
preparation allows members to review and consider the topics of discussion ahead
of time, facilitating more informed and productive meetings.

To maintain transparency and accurate records, all meetings should be recorded
for internal use only. Additionally, minutes of each meeting should be
meticulously documented and distributed to all members. This practice ensures
that there is a clear and accessible record of the discussions and decisions
made, which can be referenced in future deliberations and audits.

## 6. Communication

The council is committed to maintaining transparency and effective communication
with the broader community. For every posted vote, a public rationale will be
provided. In cases where there is a dissenting opinion, both supporting and
dissenting rationales will be shared to illustrate that the group's opinion was
mixed. The authors of these rationales will be anonymized to focus on the
arguments rather than the individuals.

Meeting dates, times, and attendance will be posted after the fact to keep the
community informed about the council’s activities. Additionally, the council
will host public educational events and AMA (Ask Me Anything) sessions to engage
with the community and provide insights into governance processes.

Adhering to Chatham House Rules, the results of votes will be shared with the
community in a manner that shows the outcome (e.g., 4 for, 2 against) without
specifying which members were for or against. This approach maintains
confidentiality while ensuring transparency. All decisions and their rationales
will be meticulously documented and shared with the community, fostering an
environment of openness and trust.

## 7. Accountability

Council members are held to high standards of accountability to ensure the
integrity of the governance process. If a member is approached with an offer of
reimbursement to change their vote, they must disclose this to the rest of the
group, preserving as many details as possible to maintain transparency and
trust. In the event that a member loses or compromises their key, it must be
reported to the orchestrator immediately to safeguard the council's operations.

The council's performance will be regularly evaluated based on the achievement
of its goals and adherence to established procedures. Additionally, if a member
is absent from communication with the group for more than 30 days, they may be
removed as a voter from the council to ensure active and consistent
participation from all members.

Furthermore, any member found to be violating the integrity of the governance
process may be removed from the council with the unanimous decision of the
remaining council members. These measures are designed to uphold the council's
commitment to transparency, integrity, and accountability.

## 8. Resources and Support

All current members of the Council understand and acknowledge that there is
currently no framework or plans in place for remuneration as part of serving on
the Council. The details regarding the Council’s available and necessary
resources will be determined over the course of the first year of operations,
allowing for more accurate estimates and planning in the future.

During this initial period, the Council will identify and outline potential
requirements for resources. These may include consultations with subject matter
experts when making decisions beyond the Council's current expertise, ensuring
well-informed and effective governance. Additionally, members may require
funding for travel, lodging, and incidental expenses when representing the
Council at formal functions and events. Training and development opportunities
will also be considered essential to enhance the skills and knowledge of Council
members, fostering continual improvement and effective participation in
governance activities. These considerations will help ensure the Council
operates efficiently and effectively while planning for future resource needs.

## 9. Amendments to the Charter

Amendments to this Charter require a 60% majority vote of all Council Members,
ensuring that changes are made with significant consensus and support. This
includes all members, whether part of the current voting bloc or not,
emphasizing the inclusive and comprehensive nature of the decision-making
process. To maintain stability and allow for thorough consideration of any
proposed changes, the Charter should not be modified more than once every six
months. These modifications must occur through a formal meeting attended by all
currently active Council Members, ensuring that every member has the opportunity
to participate in the discussion and decision-making process. This structured
approach to amending the Charter helps maintain continuity and consistency in
the Council's operations while allowing for necessary updates and improvements.

## 10. Conclusion

The Cardano Atlantic Council is deeply committed to upholding the principles and
values of the Cardano community. Our dedication to transparency, integrity, and
inclusiveness guides all our actions and decisions, ensuring that we faithfully
represent the diverse perspectives within the community. By actively
participating in governance processes and thoroughly evaluating proposed
actions, we strive to maintain the Cardano blockchain's proper functioning and
alignment with its constitutional principles.

We call on all council members to engage fully and collaboratively in our shared
mission. Each member's insights and contributions are invaluable in achieving
our objectives and fostering a governance framework that reflects the collective
wisdom and values of the Cardano community. Together, we will work towards a
transparent, accountable, and inclusive governance system that supports the
long-term health and success of the Cardano blockchain.

As we move forward, we encourage open dialogue, continuous learning, and
proactive engagement with the broader community. Through our combined efforts,
we can ensure that the Cardano Atlantic Council remains a vital and effective
component of Cardano's Constitutional Committee, championing the interests and
principles of the entire Cardano ecosystem.

## Signed and Accepted By:

[Adam Dean](https://twitter.com/adamkdean)
[Richard McCracken](https://x.com/RichardMcCrackn)